[Music]
hi so I'd like to talk a little bit
about the people who make things we use
every day our shoes our handbags our
computers and cell phones now this is a
conversation that often calls up a lot
of gilts imagine the teenage farm girl
who makes less than $1 an hour
stitching your running shoes where the
young Chinese man who jumps off a
rooftop after working overtime
assembling your iPad we the
beneficiaries of globalization seem to
exploit these victims with every
purchase we make and the injustice feels
embedded in these products themselves
after all what's wrong with the worlds
in which a worker on an iPhone assembly
line can't even afford to buy one it's
taken for granted that Chinese factories
are oppressive and that it's our desire
for cheap goods that makes them sell so
the simple narrative ik waiting western
demands and Chinese suffering is
appealing especially at a time when many
of us already feel guilty about our
impact on the world but it's also
inaccurate and disrespectful we must be
peculiarly self-obsessed
to imagine that we have the power to
drive tens of millions of people on the
other side of the world to migrate and
suffer in such terrible ways in fact
China makes goods for markets all over
the world including its own thanks to a
combination of factors it's low costs
it's large an educated workforce and a
flexible manufacturing system that
responds quickly to market demands by
focusing so much on ourselves and our
gadgets we have rendered the individuals
on the other ends into invisibility as
tiny and interchangeable as the parts of
a mobile phone Chinese workers are not
forced into factories because of our
insatiable desire for iPods they choose
to leave their homes in order to earn
money to learn new skills and to see the
world in the ongoing debate about
globalization what's been missing is the
voices of the workers themselves here
are a few
volumes show my mother tells me to come
home and get married but if I marry now
before I have fully developed myself I
can only marry an ordinary worker so I'm
not in a rush chun-ying when I went home
for the new year
everyone said I had changed they asked
me what did you do that you have changed
so much I told them that I studied and
worked hard if you tell them more they
won't understand anyway lute winning
even if I make a lot of money it won't
satisfy me just to make money is not
enough meaning in life shouting now
after I get off work I study English
because in the future our customers
won't be only Chinese so we must learn
more languages all of these speakers by
the way are young women 18 or 19 years
old so I spent two years getting to know
assembly line workers like these in the
South China Factory city called
dong-gwon certain subjects came up over
and over how much money they made what
kind of husband they hope to marry
whether they should jump to another
Factory or stay where they were other
subjects came up almost never including
living conditions that to me looked
close to prison life 10 or 15 workers in
one room 50 people sharing a single
bathroom days and nights ruled by the
factory clock everyone they knew lived
in similar circumstances and it was
still better than the dormitories and
homes of rural China the workers rarely
spoke about the products they made and
they often had great difficulty
explaining what exactly they did when I
asked lucci mean the young woman I got
to know best what exactly she did on the
factory floor she said something to me
in Chinese that sounded like sushi only
much later did I realize that she's been
saying QC or Quality Control she
couldn't even tell me what she did on
the factory floor all she could do was
parrot a garbled abbreviation in a
language she didn't even understand
and Karl Marx saw this as the tragedy of
capitalism the alienation of the worker
from the product of his labor unlike say
a traditional maker of shoes or cabinets
the worker an industrial factory has no
control no pleasure and no true
satisfaction or understanding in her own
work but like so many theories that Marx
arrived at sitting in the reading room
of the British Museum he got this one
wrong just because a person spends her
time making a piece of something does
not mean that she becomes that a piece
of something what she does with the
money she earns what she learns in that
place and how it changes her these are
the things that matter what a factory
makes is never the point and the workers
could not care less who buys their
products journalistic coverage of
Chinese factories on the other hand
plays up this relationship between the
workers and the products they make many
articles calculate how long would it
take for this worker to work in order to
earn enough money to buy what he's
making for example an entry-level line
assembly line worker in China in an
iPhone plant would have to shell out two
and a half months wages for an iPhone
but how meaningful is this calculation
really for example I recently wrote an
article in The New Yorker magazine but I
can't afford to buy an ad in it but who
cares I don't want to ad in The New
Yorker and most of these workers don't
really want iPhones their calculations
are different how long should I stay in
this factory how much money can I save
how much will it take to buy an
apartment or a car to get married or to
put my child through school the workers
I got to know had a curiously abstract
relationship with the product of their
labor about a year after I met lutein
min or min she invited me home to her
family village for the Chinese New Year
on the train home she gave me a present
a coach brands changed purse with brown
leather trim I thanked her assuming it
was fake like almost everything else for
sale and dong-gwon
after we got home Minh gave her mother
another present a pink Dooney and Bourke
handbag and a few nights later her
sister was showing off the rune sport
sack shoulder bag slowly it was dawning
on me that these handbags were made by
their factory and every single one of
them was authentic Minh sister said to
her parents in America this bag sells
for three hundred and twenty dollars her
parents were both farmers looked on
speechless and that's not all coach is
coming out with a new line two one nine
one she said one bag will sell for six
thousand she paused and said I don't
know that six thousand year an or six
thousand American dollars
but anyway it's six thousand min
sister's boyfriend who had traveled home
with her for the new year said it
doesn't look like it's worth that much
Minh sister turned to him and said some
people actually understand these things
you don't understand in mins world
the coach bags had a curious currency
they weren't exactly worthless but they
were nothing close to the actual value
because almost no one they knew wanted
to buy one or knew how much it was worth
once when mins older sister's friend got
married she brought a handbag along as a
wedding present
another time after Minh had already left
the handbag Factory
her younger sister came to visit
bringing to coach signature handbags as
gifts I looked in the zippered pocket of
one and I found a printed card in
English which read in American classic
in 1941 the burnished patina of an
all-american baseball glove inspired the
founder of coach to create a new
collection of handbags from the same
luxuriously soft gloved hand leather six
skilled leather workers crafted twelve
signature handbags with perfect
proportions and a timeless Flair
they were fresh functional and women
everywhere adored them a new American
classic was born
I wonder what Karl Marx would have made
of men and her sisters their
relationship with the product of their
labor was more complicated surprising
and funny than he could have imagined
and yet his view of the world persists
in our tendency to see the workers as
faceless masses to imagine that we can
know what they're really thinking the
first time I met Minh
she had just turned 18 and quit her
first job on the assembly line of an
electronics factory over the next two
years I watched as she switched jobs
five times eventually landing a
lucrative post in the purchasing
department of a hardware factory later
she married a fellow migrant worker
moved with him to his village gave birth
to two daughters and saved enough money
to buy a secondhand Buick for herself
and an apartment for her parents she
recently raped returned to Don Juan on
her own to take a job in a factory that
makes construction cranes temporarily
leaving her husband and children back in
the village at a recent email to me she
explained a person should have some
ambition while she is young so that an
old age she can look back on her life
and feel that it was not lived to no
purpose across China there are a hundred
fifty million workers like her one third
of them women who have left their
villages to work in the factories the
hotel's the restaurants and the
construction sites of the big cities
together they make up the largest
migration in history and it is
globalization this chain that begins in
a Chinese farming village and ends with
iPhones and our pockets and Nikes on her
feet and coach handbags and our arms
that has changed the way these millions
of people work and marry and live and
think the very few of them would want to
go back to the way things used to be
when I first went to Don Juan I worried
that it would be depressing to spend so
much time with workers
I also worried that nothing would ever
happen to them or that they would have
nothing to say to me instead I found
young women who were smart
funny and brave and generous by opening
up their lives to me they taught me so
much about factories and about China and
about how to live in the world this is
the coach purse that Minh gave me on the
train home to visit her family I keep it
with me to remind me of the ties that
tie me to the young women I wrote about
ties that are not economic but personal
in nature measured not in money but in
memories this purse is also a reminder
that the things that you imagine sitting
in your office or in the library are not
how you find them when you actually go
out into the world thank you
[Music]
Thank You Lizzy that was an insight that
a lot of us haven't had before but I'm
curious if you had a minute say with
apples head of manufacturing what would
you say
one minute one minute you know what
really impressed me about the workers is
how much they're self-motivated self
driven resourceful and the thing that
struck me what they want most is
education to learn because most of them
come from very poor backgrounds they
usually left school when they are in
seventh or eighth grade their parents
are often illiterate and then they come
to the city and they on their own at
night during the weekends they'll take a
computer class but they'll take an
English class and learn really really
rudimentary things you know like how to
type a document in Word or how to how to
say really simple things in English so
if you really want to help these workers
start these small very focused very
pragmatic classes in these schools and
what's gonna happen is all your workers
are going to move on but hopefully
they'll move on into higher jobs with an
apple and you can help their social
mobility and their self-improvement when
you talk to workers that's what they
want they do not say I want better hot
water in the showers I want a nicer room
I want a TV set I mean it would be nice
to have those things but that's not why
they're in the city and that's not what
they care about what's that a sense from
them of a narrative that things were
kind of tough and bad or was there a
narrative of some kind of level of
growth but things over time were
definitely I mean you know it was
interesting so I spent basically two
years hanging out in the city dong-gwon
and over that time you could see immense
change in every person's life upward
downward sideways but generally upward
if you spend enough time it's upward and
I met people who had moved to the city
ten years ago and were now basically
urban middle class people so the
trajectory is definitely upward it's
just hard to see when you're suddenly
sucked into the city it looks like
everyone's poor and desperate but that's
not really how it is certainly the
factory conditions are really tough and
it's nothing you or I would want to do
but from their perspective where they're
coming from is much worse and where
they're going is hopefully much better
and I just wanted to give that context
of what's going on in their minds not
what
going on in yours thanks so much for
your talk thank you
[Music]